---
title: Reflections 2017
author: Naitian Zhou
description: Some thoughts on the past year
permalink: /blog/2017/12/31/Reflections-2017/
---

## Table of Contents

## Hello again

It's been a while. I've been pretty busy doing senior year things like college applications and senior research (*cough* not really). But anyway, I figured now would be a good time to reflect on this past year - what I did, what I didn't do, and what I should be doing next year.

## This Year in Numbers

**563** Github Contributions

**1** Palantir Social Impact Prize

**4** weeks spent surviving PHP and MySQL during my internship, during which:

- I added **18** hotels
- processed **64** images
- and modified **10055** lines of code!

**6** college applications submitted (and **1** acceptance received!!!)

In Ion, I made **168** commits, with **4230** additions and **6669** deletions.

I cleared **10** feet in pole vault, very narrowly qualifying myself for states!

**3** AP exams taken

## Revisiting Last Year

I made a post on January 1st that listed some goals for the year. Let's see how well I did.

### This Website

> There’s still lots of work to be done, particularly in the little “terminal” easter egg on the home page, but I’m very happy with the site.

I definitely worked on the website quite a bit this year. I fixed some big bugs with the terminal, and added some useful tools to improve my workflow. It's definitely a lot of fun to work on.

### This Blog

> I definitely plan on posting more, and hopefully at least once every week

Oops. I kinda dropped the ball on this one... That said, I did post more often than before, and I attribute that entirely to a smoother creation flow.

### This Life

> That said, I’ll take to heart Dory’s advice of “Just keep swimming”, and keep you guys updated.

Update: I kept swimming, and finished junior pretty darn strong. It was hard, but totally worth it.

## Looking forward

Here are my resolutions for this year:

- Go to college
- Clear 11'
- Double the number of blog posts
- Get 100 stars on Github.
