---
title: So you want to build a high tech college newsroom
author: Naitian Zhou
description: Some lessons learned at The Michigan Daily.
date: 2022-02-16
---

##

College newsrooms have traditionally been the launchpad for many successful
journalism careers. They provide a lower-stakes environment for aspiring
journalists to hone their skills, gain an understanding of the industry and
make connections. 

In recent years, major national newsrooms like the New York Times and The
Washington Post have [ramped up their tech
efforts](https://www.washingtonpost.com/pr/2020/12/09/washington-post-expands-investment-emerging-storytelling-technology-with-new-lede-lab/)
to [revitalize their digital
products](https://www.nytimes.com/projects/2020-report/index.html), and there
are [many](https://newspack.pub/) [initiatives](https://source.opennews.org/)
to help smaller newsrooms keep up with this technological revolution within the
industry as well.
But despite the growing importance of newsroom engineers, data journalists and
graphics developers, many college newsrooms don't offer a space for students
with these career aspirations.

<!-- However, this success is rarely replicated when it comes to technology in the -->
<!-- newsroom[^1]. -->
<!---->

A traditional computer science background is also insufficient for the aspiring
newsroom technologist[^1]. While more traditional software engineering
positions exist within the newsroom, many roles (like graphics or data
reporting) have [different workflows with different timelines and
expectations](https://twitter.com/Wattenberger/status/1339569158506352642?s=20&t=LKJ3dYX3P2agnHQqPLWJoA)
compared to the typical software engineering job. In my experience, the hiring
process also differs from traditional software engineering companies. There
seems to be a greater emphasis on explaining your prior work, as opposed to the
LeetCode-heavy recruiting process in big tech companies. Finally, newsroom
hiring efforts are dwarfed by Big Tech, to the point where many students are
likely unaware of newsroom engineering as a viable career path at all.

[^1]: Note: there is a huge variance in the types of roles encompassed by "newsroom tech": anything from using data science in service of reporting to building newsroom tools to developing web apps and graphics.

Over the past three years, as a student at the University of Michigan (a
university without a j-school!), I've been working alongside other
extraordinarily talented students to turn The Michigan Daily into a high tech
newsroom: one which prepares students for the code-heavy newsrooms of the
future.

## Step 1: Sell the vision

In the best case, your college newsroom is the [Columbia
Spectator](https://graphicsdesk.github.io/). In the worst case, your college
newsroom views technology as a perversion of the sacrosanct art of journalism.
More likely than not, though, your newsroom is totally unaware of the exciting
possibility of newsroom tech (or they have dismissed it as beyond the
capabilities of a college paper). In any case, you need to make a strong pitch.

A college newsroom has two missions: 1) deliver quality journalism and 2)
develop aspiring journalists. Here are some brief talking points that address
both:

1. Data analysis and statistics skills are important to uncover interesting
   stories (journalism), provide a new angle (journalism) or even just critically evaluate
   the truthfulness of certain claims (pedagogy).
2. The digital medium opens up many storytelling possibilities that increase
   engagement (journalism) while also allowing students to rapidly experiment with
   new technologies (pedagogy).
3. In fact, all this is so true that major national newsrooms have begun doing
   this years ago!

At The Daily, we were fortunate to already have a web team when I first joined.
However, it was poorly integrated and had little buy-in from the rest of the
newsroom. This means projects would frequently fail to see the light of day.
This underscores the importance of (first) getting the rest of the newsroom
excited about your web team and (second) building out the processes and
workflows to get projects out the door.

## Step 2: Set up a structure

It turns out, college newsrooms work because they've had decades[^2] to figure
out how to operate. This includes processes like how to pitch a story, how to
train new hires, how to collaborate between sections,
etc. You likely have four years at most to build out these processes for what
might be a brand new "web team", so you better get cracking!
[^2]: [if not centuries](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dartmouth)!

The first step is to figure out how tech fits into your newsroom. At The Daily,
we have a "web team", which falls into the org chart as another section
alongside News and Sports and others. You may want to separate out further,
since people working on newsroom tools don't produce content. Or you may want
to integrate more tightly, since your graphics developers or data journalists
need to work with other sections to get stories out the door. Or both. Newsroom
tech is a big umbrella, with different timelines and expectations for different
types of work.

You also need to determine what roles you want to fill. Since there is so much
variety in the type of software you can write in a newsroom, you might want to
focus on developing a subset of skills at the onset. At The Daily, we put a lot
of effort initially into developing our data graphics subteam. This increased
our presence in the newsroom, produced some tangible outputs and gave us the
leeway to expand into other areas (like mobile app development and web
projects).

Your web team doesn't exist in a vacuum, and you need to figure out how to
integrate with the newsroom; what responsibilities will you take on? How will
this affect the work that other sections do? For example, you might want to
have a chat with the design section about how your graphics developers will fit
into the current workflow and what changes might be necessary. How will you
produce stories? Will your data team be working with reporters from other
sections or pitching their own stories (or both)?

After you make these decisions, you need to communicate it all to the rest of
the newsroom. Make sure other sections are aware of the work you're capable of
doing, the work you'd like to take on and how that aligns with the work they
do.

## Step 3: Develop your team

While most college students have at least some amount of writing experience by
the time they end up in the newsroom, that's much less likely to be the case
when it comes to software engineering. The floor to entry is much higher, since
there's a lot of prerequisite knowledge to start producing content. The big
challenge is to provide the minimal amount of training for students to start
contributing to projects, while assuming minimal prior experience.

Again, the pedagogical value comes mainly from experiential learning. That
means your training shouldn't resemble or replace coursework (after all,
everyone is already in college to take courses). Offer support and expertise to
give students their greatest chance of success (publishing anything is better
than nothing), but also provide the room to experiment and fail.

This is something we are in the process of constantly refining at The Daily.
The biggest priority for senior leadership is developing a culture for newer
members to learn and flourish.

## Step 4: Enculturation

Just as your web team doesn't exist in a vacuum, neither does your newsroom.
Try to expose your team (and yourself) to the surrounding community of college
and professional newsrooms. In my experience, the "news nerd" community of
newsroom technologists has been incredibly open and generous with knowledge.

Learn about the processes and workflows other organizations use, as well as the
tools and technologies they employ. See what stories other organizations are
producing, and how they are executing their vision. This all feeds into
inspiration for *your* newsroom's next big project.

Impress upon your team the possibility of working in the newsroom. Make them
aware of various newsroom internships for the summer or during the school year.
Encourage them to apply! This gives great insight into how professional
newsrooms operate and helps build valuable connections as you advance your
career.

The most important thing you can do to guarantee the success of your high tech
newsroom is to ingrain an inclusive, productive culture. Get your old members
to teach your new members, and get your new members to come back year after
year.

## Step 5: Profit!

There you go. You did it. Your college newsroom now has an amazing team of
software engineers and data journalists and graphics developers and UI/UX
designers working on a half dozen different projects for the newsroom.
Remember: it didn't start like this. It started with just a handful of people
(or maybe even just you) who were excited about the idea of working where tech
and journalism intersect.

And it doesn't end like this either: The Michigan Daily web team is still
growing and evolving to better serve the newsroom and better serve our
students. I can only hope that I helped The Daily take those first steps -- and
I hope you might be inspired to take them, too.

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to my former co-managing online editor, Parth Dhyani, as well as current
MOEs Eric Lau and Dora Guo, who all provided valuable feedback and support (in
writing this piece, in The Michigan Daily, and in general.)


## P.S.
If you are interested in, or have been in the process of, setting up a more
tech-forward organization in the college newsroom, please reach out to me! I'd
love to chat with you. You can find me
[@NaitianZhou](https://twitter.com/NaitianZhou) on Twitter, or email me at
[naitian@umich.edu](mailto:naitian@umich.edu).

If you do tech + news professionally, I'd also love to hear your thoughts. And
if you're hiring, I know some very qualified students who would make fantastic
  interns or employees :)
