---
title: How to ask questions at grad visits
author: Naitian Zhou
description: Qualitative research tips from a quantitative researcher
date: 2022-12-27
---

##

Grad school visit days are an opportunity to learn more about your potential
advisor and school. You'll need to make some tough decisions in the near future
about where to attend, and you're going to want as much data to make this
decision as possible.

This past semester, I took a qualitative methods class[^1], where we learned about
conducting interviews. Here are a few tips from that course which I wish I'd
known when I was talking to professors and grad students[^2].

[^1]: A fascinating course, because I come from a very quantitative background.

[^2]: These are just tips for getting better information, but don't stress out about following these to the tee (or even following them at all)!

## Interview Strategies

You want to know what your life will be like at school X working with professor
Y for the next four to six years. How do you get that data? In this case, you
ask others about their experiences, and use that to inform your mental model.

But question-asking is a lossy information transfer. People frequently forget
to mention things, make ambiguous statements, or have trouble putting their
thoughts into words. It is your task to aid them in this process, so that the
information you receive is a faithful interpretation fo their experience.

## 1. Be prepared

It's best to have a rough plan going in. Come up with a couple of themes that
you want to cover and some questions you want ask. When I was talking to
current PhD students, I usually asked about their experience working with X
advisor, living in Y city, working in Z university. I would also ask them how
they decided where to attend [^3].

[^3]: This last question usually yielded insightful responses.

Remember, though, that this is just a guide, and the nature of an interview is
organic. So, it is best to have these questions and themes at the back of your
mind as you have a _conversation_ with whoever you are talking to.

## 2. Be specific

Sometimes it is tempting to ask broad questions, since it is hard to know what
specific questions to ask. This makes sense! After all, you have never done a
PhD (and possibly never even gone to grad school), so how would you know what
it is you want to find out?

However, broad questions elicit broad answers, and vivid, detailed
answers are more useful for you.

So instead of asking a question like

> "What don't you like about X University?",

try asking something more specific like

> "What are some logistical frustrations about being at X?".

Or even better, ask about _specific experiences_, like 

> "Can you tell me about a recent time when you felt frustrated by some logistics at X?"

In general, if you can ask about experiences, those will result in the richest
descriptions, since people can draw on their memories instead of trying to
generalize.

## 3. Ask follow-ups

Another way to get richer answers is to follow up on anything you find
ambiguous, or that you'd like to learn more about. This may seem obvious, but
for me, this is actually quite challenging, because you need to quickly
  synthesize what they said and respond.

It might be helpful to think of some likely follow-ups when preparing -- this
will also serve as practice for coming up with follow-ups. You might also want
to note down what follow-up questions you thought of in previous interviews or
visits, so that you have them top of mind in the future.

## 4. Be creative

Though meeting in a coffee-shop or on Zoom might be the easiest, it might not
be the most effective setting. If you're visiting on campus, consider maybe
doing a "walking interview" through campus or meeting in the office space. This
might trigger certain memories, experiences or anecdotes that people may forget
to mention otherwise.

## 5. Take notes

Remember to remember! It can be hard to have a conversation while scribbling
down notes, so I recommend jotting down some thoughts after the meeting
instead. It will still be fresh enough for you to remember the important
points, and this allows you engage more actively in the conversation instead of
trying to multitask.

## Concluding thoughts

When I was going around doing visits, I had a rough idea of the things I wanted
to know about, but the questions I asked often resulted in the same set of
general, surface-level answers.

Hopefully, with some of these tips, you can be better prepared to have deeper
conversations that result in more informative answers. But don't miss the
forest for the trees! The important thing is that you are meeting with people
and learning about the campus and surroundings in a way that is comfortable for
_you_.

So if the strategies I've mentioned provide some helpful guidance for you,
great! But if they seem awkward or difficult to implement, don't worry about
it. Just do what feels good for you.

I think interviews and visits two of my favorite parts of the application
process. I had some insightful and inspiring conversations. I hope you enjoy
this process as well. Good luck and have fun!
