---
title: Reflections 2022
author: Naitian Zhou
description: Something blue, something new.
date: 2023-01-02
---

## New Year, New Me.

I look forward to writing these every year, because time just flies by and I
don't have much chance to take a step back and let life sink in. I am
particularly savoring the opportunity this year because it has been an eventful
one.

## Table of Contents

## This Year in Numbers

**250** Github contributions (back on the decline, but that's ok)

**700** miles ran (including 1.5 marathons!)

**324** New York Times daily crosswords completed

**1** musical attended (_Jagged Little Pill_ at the Golden Gate Theatre)

**1** cap and gown ðŸŽ“

## Highlights

This was the first **January** in 16 years that I did not have any classes. A
short-lived respite; my classes start again next Tuesday. I ran 79 miles and
got my first PhD program acceptances. Also found out about Wordle (what a
moment that was.)

**February**, though short, was also eventful. I ran 79 miles, got my first
Covid booster, and traveled to Madison, WI. It is a neat city with pretty
buildings, a cool art museum, and a lake that you can walk on! Towards the end
of the month, I flew out to LA with some friends, which leads us into...

**March** was the month of travel for me. I ran 106 miles, including my first
half marathon, and flew for probably a few thousand more. It started out with
the LA trip; we went to Joshua Tree (who knew the desert could be so pretty),
Pomona (who knew a college campus could be so pretty), and the Academy Museum
of Motion Pictures (who knew Studio Ghibli films could be so pretty[^ghibli]).
March was also the month of grad school visits, so a week after getting back
from Los Angeles, I flew out to Switzerland for the EPFL visit days (and for
Switzerland). It was a really great experience, and the entire country is so
picturesque. After Lausanne, I visited Jungfraujoch and Zurich. The day after
returning from Zurich, I drove to Ithaca with my parents to visit Cornell. It
was gorges, and snowy, even by my Michigan standards. Two days later, I flew
out to Berkeley, CA, which had neither gorges nor snow, but did have some
beautiful sunsets.

[^ghibli]: (A lot of people, actually)

By comparison, **April** was a bit more relaxed. I walked for graduation and
ran 148 miles.

**May** was the same way, largely spent in Ann Arbor and at home, just taking a
break and running (for 157 miles). I did, however, spend about a week immersing
myself in Hayao Miyazaki's directorial oeuvre: I watched, in the following
order, _The Wind Rises_, _Lupin III_, _NausicaÃ¤_, _Laputa_, _Totoro_, _Porco
Rosso_, _Princess Mononoke_, _Spirited Away_, _Howl's Moving Castle_, and
_Ponyo_. I had watched _Kiki's Delivery Service_ a few months earlier, in LA.

In **June**, I went backpacking for the first time, hiking around 20 miles in
two days. In the future, I will bring more camp activities and spend less time
walking. It was also the month of the Banff Marathon, which I had been training
for the whole month. My parents and I flew up to Banff (absolutely stunning),
where we visited Lake Louise, picked up my packet, and prayed for the rain to
go away. The race was a totally unique experience; I saw several rams along the
route, and it was just breathtaking the whole way through[^breath]. After the
race, I limped all the way to Seattle, where I visited some friends.

[^breath]: Which, granted, is not idea for aerobic activities.

I officially moved out of my room in Ann Arbor in **July**.

In **August**, I moved to California and started school. There's a lot to say
about that, but I will leave it at that for now.

**September** and **October** flew by. I got my California ID, my parents came
to visit, and I submitted another GRF application (second times the charm??)

I saw _Jagged Little Pill_ with Isabelle in **November**. We also went on a
hike in Marin (that lasted a bit longer than expected...). I celebrated my 23rd
birthday (oh my god) and went on strike. For Thanksgiving, I flew to Seattle to
visit some friends and we took a weekend trip to Portland (also a great city,
with a massive bookstore.) Michigan won The Game. I took the Amtrak back from
Seattle (unfortunately, most of the trip was in the dark) and continued strike
action.

And finally, in **December**, I came home for the first time since I left for
California. I watched the World Cup finals with my dad, who is a massive futbol
fan. Now I am sitting on the couch, into the last week of break, wondering
where all the time went.

## Reflections

I've had a harder time writing this post than in previous years. Last year, I
wrote

> "I'm temporarily stuck looking ahead into a bright cloud of complete uncertainty."

In many ways, much of that uncertainty is gone. This time last year, I didn't
know where I would be living in a year. Now, I know where I will be for the
next five or six.

But, like a new pair of shoes, I have stepped into a new life in which I'm not
yet comfortable. There is the nagging rigidity of preformed expectations: the
program milestones I need to achieve, the ideas I had about what grad school
would be like, and what I thought my twenties would entail. At the same time,
it feels alien: moving to a new place, adopting a new habits. Right now it
feels like an awkward fit, not yet broken in.

I have a pretty good idea now of what the next few years will be like -- of
what I will be doing and where I will be. The Berkeley iSchool has a pretty
comprehensive guide on the timeline to do a PhD. But in between those
milestones will be thousands of ephemeral moments (and a handful of defining
ones) that are entirely unknown to me, and it is those that I look forward to
the most. These moments are the wrinkles and creases and scratches of a
well-worn shoe that shape it snugly around my feet.

Breaking in a new pair of shoes can be frustrating and sometimes painful. I am
not the most patient person. I find myself sometimes yearning for the
comfortable, lived-in, familiar past. But I know that this feeling will
diminish with time, as I settle into the rhythms of this new part of my life.
There's no other way to break in a shoe than to just start walking.

So happy new year. I guess I'll get going now.
