---
title: Reflections 2021
author: Naitian Zhou
description: The end of the beginning.
date: 2022-01-05
---

## Time flies

Usually I post one of these on New Year's Eve. Unfortunately, I was busy this
year watching Michigan play[^1] Alabama in the Orange Bowl, so here we are, a
few days later.


[^1]: Play might be too strong a term for what happened on the field that night...

## Table of Contents

## This Year in Numbers

**585** Github contributions (a new high score!)

**33** more college credits

**1** Bachelor's degree (!!)

**11** PhD applications

...and **a lot** of things on my mind.

## Highlights

In **January**, I began my penultimate semester of college (although I didn't
know it at the time). I also began my term as one of the managing online
editors at [The Michigan Daily](https://michigandaily.com) (more on this
later). I also got _super_ into the NYT spelling bee, and I implemented Naive
Bayes for homework for the third and fourth time.

In **February**, The Daily published a couple of projects and stories that I
had a hand in: the [Statement Love
Edition](https://magnify.michigandaily.us/love/), which I helped coordinate,
and a [data-driven piece on Covid
cases](https://www.michigandaily.com/research/how-effective-are-stay-home-orders-and-recommendations-reducing-spread-covid-19/).
This would mark the beginning of a lot more rich online content from The Daily.
I also got Sunday donuts from Loomi Cafe for the first time. This became a
weekly tradition that was unfortunately short-lived, as Loomi closed this December.

**March** flew by with a lot of Daily work: a *bunch* more data stories from
The Daily, including a multi-part piece on feeder schools that would go on to
win an award and get a ton of readers. We also published a special project, 
reflecting on one year of online classes. Finally, we launched a brand new
website, opening up a lot more flexibility in the projects we'd be able to
tackle in the future.

In **April**, I got vaccinated.

In **May**, it felt like the world once again existed outside the confines of
my own room, and I was eager to take advantage. In roughly chronological order,
I: helped my family move back to Troy, Michigan (after having moved from Troy
just a couple years ago), learned to skateboard, read *Pachinko* and *Abolish
Silicon Valley*, attended my friend's graduation at UVA and climbed Old Rag in
Shenandoah. I also (virtually) began my summer internship at the University of
Washington. 

I departed for Seattle in **June**, opting to take the Amtrak *Empire Builder*
from Chicago. This was a two-and-a-half day trip, and I loved every minute of
it (give or take). You can read some of my thoughts about it
[here](https://twitter.com/NaitianZhou/status/1430571386263818245?s=20). Aside
from the train trip, I explored lots of Seattle (especially U District), went
on a few runs, climbed a couple of mountains, and endured a really killer heat
wave.

**July** contained more Seattle adventures, including more hiking, some
kayaking, a trip to Portland, and I got my Seattle Public Library card.

I wrapped up my time in Seattle in **August**. My parents came to see Mt.
Rainier and Olympic National Park with me before we flew back home to Michigan.
I also began my last ever semester as an undergrad at the University of
Michigan.

In **September**, I house-sat a cat and it was the best week of my life.

**October** was a Michigan fall, and I did all of the classic Michigan fall
thingsâ„¢. This included a trip to a cider mill with the Blablablab, making my
*own* cider (also with the Blablablab), a couple of backyard bonfires, and (of
course) a Michigan football game. I also submitted my NSF GRF application.

I turned 22 in **November**. Oh yeah, and Michigan beat OSU for the first time
in close to a decade. That was a good day.

That brings us to **December**. If some of these months seem sparse in detail,
it's because this past year really flew by -- _especially_ this past month.
There were a lot of good-byes, a lot of lasts, and not a lot of time to process
all of it...

## Reflections

Which I suppose leads us to this section. Some time to process everything that
happened this past year and, really, these past three and a half years of
college.

It's hard to know where to begin, so maybe I'll contextualize by starting with
my *last* graduation. When I graduated from high school, I felt a sense of
completion and a really strong optimism for the future. This is what I wrote in
my 2018 reflection:

> I can only hope that the next five years will be as fulfilling and
> interesting and fun as the past five. I hope that, just as I found a home in
> Virginia, I'll find a home in Michigan, and wherever life might take me next.

What I hadn't anticipated was the tumult. The best way to describe the past
couple of years would be careening down the interstate with the windows down,
and a stray newspaper just flew into my face. Thrilling, sure, but also
terrifying.

I'm ending my years at Michigan a semester early (I achieved this through a
convoluted series of events, which is fit for a whole other post...) It feels
like I've slammed on the brakes, flown out of the vehicle, and extended this
analogy past its breaking point. What I'm trying to say is, I don't feel the
same sense of closure that I felt four years ago after high school.

I'm sure this is in no small part due to the crazy circumstances of the past
couple of years. Aside from a global pandemic that resulted in my coursework
being online for half of the time I was at Michigan, my family has also moved
four times in three years, meaning somehow I've accumulated five or six
different Michigan zip codes. When I said I hoped to find a home in Michigan, I
should have clarified: I'd be content with just one, and not six.

But premature departures, pandemics and Zhou family migration patterns are
trivial in the bigger picture of my experience at (in, and around) Michigan.
They may have made this ending come sooner or seem quicker in its approach, but
I doubt I'd be any more prepared with any amount of lead time. I have put a lot
of myself into the people and organizations and life in Ann Arbor, and it's
hard to imagine waving goodbye to all of that.

I'm proud to have helped build up two stellar student organizations from close
to nothing: the Michigan Data Science Team and the web team at The Michigan
Daily. They are in excellent hands now, but it's still hard to say goodbye. But
even greater than that, I'm proud to have built so many lasting relationships
with people here -- people I can laugh with, confide in, rant to, seek support
from. Those are the hardest goodbyes.

Fulfilling, interesting and fun? Definitely.

That brings us to now: I've applied to PhD programs which I'm waiting to hear
back from, which means I'm temporarily stuck looking ahead into a bright cloud
of complete uncertainty.

Usually, at the end of these reflections, I like to take a look forward into
the next year. This time, though, I don't think that's feasible. I don't know
where I will physically be this time next year, much less what I'll be doing or
what I'll have to look forward to. Just... something interesting, probably.

So I'll bide my time for now, sitting with my feet dangling off a precipice
overlooking the entire rest of my life. I think I'll spend the next couple of
months savoring the end of the beginning.
