---
title: Why do I want to do a PhD?
author: Naitian Zhou
description: (it's the luxurious lifestyle and high salary)
date: 2022-06-15
---

## 

In a couple of months, I'll be starting my PhD at UC Berkeley School of
Information. The whole grad school application process was a wild ride, and
something I'd like to write more about in the future, but for now, I'd like to
write a bit about my motivations for deciding to do a PhD in the first place.

## Hedges (and acknowledging the audience (that's you!))

If you're considering applying to grad schools, please don't take this post as
anything other than my own thoughts as I navigated this decision. If you relate
to them, that's great! Maybe you *should* do a PhD. Maybe neither of us should
(whoops).

If you are someone who has done a PhD in the past (or are in the middle of one
right now), I'm not sure why you're reading this, but if it reminds you of your
own motivations, that's great! If it doesn't... Different strokes for different
folks, I guess.

If you are me from the future, hi! I hope things are going well, and if they're
not and you're really doubting me for signing you up for this, here is why I
(you (we)) decided to do it in the first place.

---

Anyway, I decided to do a PhD because... 

## ...I'd like to satisfy my curiosity.

I became interested in doing research in undergrad because I read a paper I
really liked. It was the first time I enjoyed reading a research paper, and
that made me realize that there's scientific research happening that I'm
actually interested in.

I would like to read more of those types of papers. I would like to read more
papers full of other people's interesting ideas, but there are also papers I
would like to read that test my personal hypotheses about the world. Because I
don't have the resources to fund my own research lab and tell people to write
those papers, it seems the next easiest thing to do is to tell myself to write
those papers. So that then I can read them.

## ...I want to get better at research.

The flaw in the above plan is that I'm not very good at writing papers right
now, so I need to get some practice operationalizing research ideas, writing
code, synthesizing literature, (and writing papers). If only there were some
kind of educational institution in which I could practice conducting research.

## ...the alternatives weren't as appealing.

I've also done software engineering and data journalism internships.

I wasn't that thrilled with my SWE experience: the work was sometimes
interesting, but I missed having a sense of ownership over what I was doing. In
my research experience, I owned my work, and I liked that feeling. The flip
side is that there's less of a mental safety net -- failures feel more
personal. There's a constant pressure to be productive because if you're not
working on your project, it's not like someone else in the org will be. But to
experience higher highs, it makes sense you have to also take the lower lows,
and it was a great feeling to see my name on a published paper.

I'll write more about data journalism in the future probably -- I worked on the
data graphics at NBC News Digital for a semester. It was a generally fantastic
experience, but I felt two frustrations: 1) you have to work on the news, which
isn't always necessarily what you're interested in and 2) it's a bigger ask to
use some more advanced methodologies because it'll both take more time and be
harder to explain to readers.

## ...why not?

Finally, it's just something I'd like to do. Why do we climb mountains or run
marathons or set out to do anything at all? There are moments where you'll feel
great, for sure, but also plenty of pretty terrible moments. But I think any
meaningful experience has good parts and bad parts. On balance, having done a
PhD will probably make me a more improved person, so it seems like there's not
much reason *not* to do one if I, for whatever arbitrary reason, just want to.

If life is just a collection of experiences, then this is an experience I'd like to collect. 

# PS

I did the nested parentheticals a couple of times in this post. I think I like
it. I hope it didn't bother you too much.
